uh for the Pledge of Allegiance
I pledge allegations
under God indivisible with liberty and
justice for all
okay
I need a motion to bring
um well
I need a motion to approve the agenda
I'll make a motion to approve the agenda
okay Vice chair Brown makes a motion to
approve the agenda I'll second that's
our trustee Hall seconds all those in
favor say aye aye aye okay the motion
took care of the agendas as noted
first action item uh I need a
um a motion to consideration and
approval of superintendent contract and
addendum
for uh Brandon Durst
I make a motion to approve excuse me for
the addendum for uh superintendent's
contract
okay Vice chair Brown makes a motion to
bring to the table consideration and
approval of superintendent
superintendent contract and addendum do
I have a second
Paul seconds it
discussion we will go with the addendum
first and we will go
by section and we'll do us
um
a review and markup and
approval of each section or what we call
a sub approval and then once we're done
sorry this thing's feeding back
[Music]
all right
okay so each subsection we will do a sub
approval on and then we will approve the
addendum first as a whole
okay
okay the first item
um
is a header
okay
all those in favor of the header as it's
written please say hi
bye
so
we're not keeping a secret we're holding
a meeting
point of order
[Applause]
[Music]
one more time and you're out
loud
we just want you to talk lives up so we
can hear you
that's it everyone's asking for the same
thing okay
so you want me to would you like me to
read yes please okay
the header West Bonner County School
District number 83 Bonner County Idaho
superintendent contract addendum and
probably a good point is that there is
a one page I would do a quick
clarification that there is a one-page
contract that the state provides
and then there that is standardized
pretty much around the state for the
different school districts
the addendum is the contract or is the
piece of the contract that puts in the
specifics
so that the first page one page would be
the contract
and that was
that was posted and this is the addendum
and we'll I'll I will just to clarify I
will read and then if there are changes
that we are making I will View track
changes on these on this agenda they're
on the addendum
thank you
so that was what we were chair Rutledge
was asking about if I understand right
that was the header
and
that
um that is consistent with our other
superintendent contracts
so the um
do you um go ahead ready for the next
just go ahead and read it okay so the
the preliminary the paragraph is it is
hereby agreed by in between the Board of
Trustees of West Bonner County School
District number 83 located in Bonner
County in the state of Idaho
here and after referred to as the board
and Brandon Durst here and after
referred to as superintendent that the
board is in accordance with
its action at its meeting on blank 2023
had and does hereby at end the
superintendent's contract with
brandenders as superintendent of West
Bonner County School District
that then number one
benefits
the superintendent shall be provided
with at least the same benefits as West
Bonner County School District employees
should be a period
so
um please
the public comment
the benefits
it's no public comment
[Music]
so did you miss this last thing right
here
um
does which one it's the benefits just to
clarify you got the wrong one oh sorry
okay never mind nope okay sorry my bad
um where did that one you gave me the
wrong one okay sorry okay so would you
like me to read it yes please in
addition to the annual salary the
superintendent shall receive the
following additional benefits and
consideration for the faithful
performance of the duties of
superintendent of the district
hey
would you like me to continue yes please
okay
I'm sorry a 12 days annual leave with a
compensation for illness injury or
emergencies such unused leave shall be
accumulated from year to year to a
maximum allowed for over or I'm sorry
for other 12-month employees of the
district
B the superintendent shall be provided
with at least the same fringe benefits
as the district provides its certified
employees
C the district shall pay dues and
association fees for the
superintendent's membership in the Idaho
Association of school administrators the
American Association of school
administrators and other professional
groups or associations specifically
approved by the board
d
I think we're going to go through one by
one after we read
the superintendent shall receive 20 days
of paid vacation annually exclusive of
legal holidays I or one the
superintendent may elect to receive paid
compensation for up to 12 days during
each year for unused vacation days at
the applicable day daily salary rate of
1 and 260th of the annual base salary
unused vacation May accumulate from year
to year or up to 30 days
2 upon retirement or termination the
superintendent shall be entitled to
receive reimbursement for maximum of 30
days of unused accumulated vacation e
the district shall lease or otherwise
procure a vehicle with a model year no
older than 10 years with all-wheel drive
or four-wheel drive capabilities for the
superintendent's exclusive use the
superintendent may use the vehicle for
personal or official business the
district shall be responsible for all
maintenance registration insurance and
fuel for the vehicle's operation the
superintendent shall not be eligible for
mileage reimbursement regardless of the
vehicle that is driven
F the superintendent shall be provided a
term life insurance policy with the
payoff benefit equal to the base salary
of the superintendent G the district
will pay one half of the
superintendent's month monthly Percy
contributing
contributions
the H the superintendent shall be
entitled to work remotely during
non-instructional periods such as school
breaks however the superintendent must
be available to return to the district
office or other District facilities
should an emergency require
I the district will provide the
superintendent of monthly housing
allowance of 500 the housing allowance
shall only be applicable for housing
located within the district's boundaries
this shall be considered taxable income
for the tax reporting purposes J the
district will provide the superintendent
a one-time relocation reimbursement of
two thousand dollars for costs incurred
for removing this shall not be
considered taxable income for tax
reporting purposes
okay the superintendent shall have
access to utilize any District provided
meal services at the district
at any school this at any District
school free of charge
okay
would you like me to continue point of
order
what it is
[Music]
so if you can't be quiet
you want to get out of here
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
um
[Music]
wait just one second
so you guys
excuse me
no because you
thank you
very much
we are actually going to edit you
haven't given us a chance to edit this
well I'm considering anything
[Music]
[Applause]
listen you guys
so community
the board meetings
so we'll ask you we'll ask you to leave
and the board can do that
so you would need to leave so that they
could run their meeting or they close
down their meeting and they'll have to
reschedule it
so please follow the point of order and
then let them work through their
business okay
Whitney
it's not on the agenda
today
[Music]
I think I replied back to you and I said
no okay well as soon as you get back to
me
um hold on
yeah so
[Music]
there's one thing where
so public with me public comment would
be next Wednesday at the regular board
meeting the board has there's two times
typically I'm looking at chair but
typically there are two times for public
comment and the board meetings are
scheduled for the third Wednesday of
every month and the public comment just
so people understand that there is
public comment at the at the beginning
of the meeting and those comments are
for are for any items on the agenda and
then at the end of the meeting there's
public comment for any other topic that
people want to have a comment and those
comments are two minutes long
this is a special meeting and that this
the contract isn't at the meeting next
Wednesday because if you guys
no because most contracts every contract
I've done so far didn't require public
con
um
no this one doesn't because the the
board decides the contracts
okay if you'll
if
if you'll just wait a minute we're going
through this thing where this is not the
final contract we're up here trying to
mark this thing up take things out this
is not the final contract that's what
what we're trying to tell you please be
patient
okay
he hasn't signed a contract
[Music]
this
if
you
[Music]
know that Dimitri he did say he signed a
contract for a house okay okay
so the the contract isn't complete until
the board approves it we can go in and
take things in it take things out reword
the whole thing resubmit it to Brandon
for his approval
I mistakenly gave her I emailed the
wrong copy
okay
I'm the reason is I was going to track
change and I have a PDF I'm not getting
the word doc and I've got plenty of
sprays but I've got a clean copy that I
will be making changes on and hopefully
and chair Rutledge is also looking at it
but I can track it so so we're looking
at it
just to take the temperature down a
little bit in the room everything we
read here is not the final it's it's
what we have in front of us we're
meeting here as a group to discuss every
line item if we don't like something
we're taking it out if we don't like the
wording we're taking it out
that's how contracts are done
[Music]
all right
so can I start um can I start going down
the line I've got quite a few changes on
this a through Craig okay let me let me
say one other thing
it's a little nervous up here I
apologize
give us some Grace and I'll give you
some Grace
okay we're all adults
right up
there
[Music]
it came it's it's all of us
as a group yes well well clarification
um as far as I know this is from him
right this is something that we are
going to go line by line we are going to
clarify this this is a a proposal or
potential we have to do addendum
and the the other thing is that the
items the benefits the work schedule the
communications the goals and objectives
those were um those were used in Susie
Lucky's Jackie um Jackie branham's when
I was doing a contract before with
Michael Roby those were the breakdowns
and when we were doing it with Michael
Roby he wanted certain things and we
were saying no so it was a back and
forth so I would say that the bigger uh
the number one benefits the bigger items
are the same that we normally have and
then people can put in
you can negotiate back and forth that's
the thing is and then we're doing it in
real time this came in front of us
um and now we're you know he started
with the basics and then gave it to us
and now we're trying to go through and
edit it this is a negotiation of a
contract yeah so
I'm sorry Mr chair okay are we going to
go through each
section or are we going to do would you
like me to read the whole thing no we're
gonna go
we're going to go through each section
okay and then we're gonna
um
vote on each section or kind of approve
each action as we go
it's for correction then at the end
we'll look at the whole thing correct
that we'll look at the whole thing once
we've kind of gone through the different
components and edited as we've gone
through it
and say yes
[Music]
correct absolutely chair Rutledge would
you like me to read each letter item
before we discuss yes thank you
so as we go back to
benefits a 12 days annual leave with
compensation for illness injury or
emergencies
such unused leaves shall be accumulated
from year to year to a maximum allowed
for other 12-month employees of the
district
all right I I did do some phone calls to
different school districts because we're
going from five to four day
and that this 12-day annual leave looks
about it was pretty standard it was
um that was one school Homedale had 10
days
um orophino joint which is a four day
head but we haven't gotten to vacations
we'll talk about that they um they
actually point to their policies by
thousand um and that applies to everyone
um I did also talk with
um
other ones but on this one that 12 days
annual leave with compensation for
illness even if we're going to a four
day was about made sense Fruitland was
also 12 days sick leave
this is just a flat 12 days of annual
leave it's not in congruent with more
sick days because I didn't see that
well this one it says annual leave with
compensation for illness injury or
emergency so I'm we could change it is
it 12 days sick leave that we're saying
or that's what we need to decide okay so
that would be
because other previous contracts have it
spelled out as
five days per year for annual leave for
example these are examples two days of
personal leave in addition to seven days
every six months
and these 12 days
oh it's pretty it came from our original
um 12 days is pretty standard it came
from Jackie's which actually pulled some
of that from Paul anselmos
so that's but it called it six sick days
should be entitled to
sick
sick days totaling 12. so if we want to
be consistent with what we've had in the
past we could call it sick days to be to
clarify it
okay so the change is
um to remove injury and emergencies yes
so
so 12 days sick leave with compensation
for illness
and to be compensating for him I mean
that's pretty open are we compensating
with his
sick are we compensating with just those
12 days
I would just say 12 days sick leave
period I would say
and then the other section of that
Harlan do you want to read read that
other such unused leave shall be
accumulated from year to year to maximum
allowed for other 12-month employees of
district and that's pretty standard
case I have no additional comments on
that first a
okay
so to finalize that would you like me to
um we'll just keep we'll make up the
we'll we'll mark them up and then we'll
um vote on all section I
okay
or benefits yeah
okay do you want to read the next one
sure B the superintendent shall be
provided with at least the same fringe
benefits as the district provides
certified employees
okay Margie you had you had him um I had
a I had a markup on this one the
superintendent shall be provided with at
least
let's see the same
benefits as a district provides
certificated employees
excluding other benefits identified in
this contract
because I was it was pointed out when I
was talking about other with other
districts about the addendum
um that there could be it almost could
be double dipping in some ways so that's
why I would clarify that it is excluding
other benefits in this contract
so are we removing the word Fringe yes
get rid of The Fringe and then I get is
that what you were saying trusty Vice
chair Brown yes okay so we're removing
that word and then you were adding
something at the end of employees
um excluding after put a comma after
certificated employees and say excluding
other other benefits
identified in this contract
so that there isn't
um
you know he doesn't get there aren't it
doesn't
it protects Us in terms of making sure
that there's not a double dip there
I'm sure I was just supposed to do
either of you guys have anything you
want to add to that or yeah okay she
just asked if anybody else had anything
to add
okay are we are we good with B yes yes
okay we'd see please
the district shall pay dues and
association fees for the
superintendent's membership and the
Idaho Association of school
administrators
keep going sorry mine's a little marked
up that's working um the American
Association of school administrators and
other professional groups or associate
associations specifically approved by
the board
I think that I didn't have a problem
with that one since it had to be
specifically approved by board board
stuffy is that standard for most
contracts within this District
okay
I'm sorry to say it again I just asked I
asked Steffy if that was standard for
most
it is very standard
okay
are we ready yep D the superintendent
shall receive 20 days of paid vacation
annually exclusive of legal holidays
one the superintendent may elect to
receive paid compensation for up to 12
days during each year for unused
vacation days at the applicable daily
salary rate of 1 in 260th of annual base
rate unused vacation May accumulate from
year to year up to 30 days
to upon retirement or termination the
superintendent shall be entitled to
receive reimbursement for a maximum of
30 days of unused accumulated vacation
so
I would strike
um
first of all that the 20 days of paid
vacation annually it did vary between
the four-day school districts from as
little as
eight days with boundary County because
they superintendent
bear is 196 days she has it a little
different than um we'd normally do to
240 and 233 days some of the school
districts didn't even identify days
and they had vacation days about 15 days
when they didn't spec I'm thinking
Fruitland did not specify the days in
their contract total days that
superintendent worked but their vacation
days were 15. I think it's this evening
that they're going to be relocating the
contract
so 20 days
um remembering that we're on a four day
school week but this person may be
working five days a week or on 24 7.
um
I don't know I seemed a little high when
I was doing my research on that
particular item
to be 20 days Homedale was as low as a
vacation days was two weeks
10 days was Orofino joint basically our
sort of sister or sister School District
in terms of size was 10 days vacation
and that was for 12 months year-round
employees
so that
so that has a little bit of a that was
sort of a little bit different for I
have concerns about being at 20 days and
then the second part of that is receive
compensation paid compensation for up to
12 days during each year for unused
vacation times again
we are hiring somebody when we
when we don't we're a tight we have to
be as tight as possible we did not we're
trying to look at ways to pay for other
expenses and so I have trouble with that
paying additional money right now
okay what is your recommendation
my recommendation would be
superintendent shall receive 15 days of
paid vacation
exclusive of legal holidays
um strike the the superintendent may
elect to be receive paid a compensation
for up to 12 days each year for unused
so basically strike little I
and I on upon retirement or termination
the superintendent shall entitled to
receive compensation for a maximum of 30
days of unused accumulated vacation
I'm not sure what we'd standardly get
when somebody retires and I guess I
would need some feedback on that one if
any um because it seems like 30 days is
high
I would say 10 days this is a four day
work week
why are we giving I mean there's no one
else in the district that gets more than
two weeks
I've been 10 years in the district and I
get two weeks
[Applause]
so I guess it would be receive 15 days
of paid vacation and then you're looking
at 10 days 10 days for maximum for
reimbursement no I'm I'm saying 10 days
of paid vacation annually now if he
doesn't use those you can carry them
over
but I think that a standard two-week
especially with a one-year contract
what is the standard for our certified
employees for vacation at one year
okay just
wanted to
yeah but you guys
vacation days
right here
so Jackie got five days per year now
Jackie got 20 days for vacation sick
days 12 and five days personal
and that was based on 260 hours
and up five days so that's 460 a day
days days so 260 and he has contract is
for 196. no um
the the contract is actually on the
front contract which is where it spells
out the days
it is
260 days
on the very first one okay
the contract the one pager to the state
um says I'm just looking it up it should
be 260 days
I mean yeah 260 days I think it said
somewhere
or actually wait a second it may not
even if
it actually doesn't address the number
of days it doesn't I'm looking at it now
it doesn't seem like it does address the
number of days
somewhere I thought I saw 260. oh it was
in the um
yeah
oh 260. okay yeah right here that's
where I saw it um
so
the superintendent will be working five
days a week that is true
260 is applicable
yeah
I don't have a problem with doing the 15
days instead of the 20. let's speak into
the market I don't have a problem doing
15 days instead of a 20.
for the actual paid vacation
um
what I was Finding is that as I said the
Homedale
um let's see
Orofino joint the superintendent was 260
days
because he's real year-round in some
ways
um
Homedale
did not oh they were still they were
under their
estimate was 233 days
boundary County
um if they had kind of gone to the other
rotation
rather than 196 contract days
um
sheet
it was estimated would be 240 days so in
some ways 260 seem to be High I mean I
could see us bringing it down to 240
days Jan again is uh our superintendent
bear in boundary is only eight days on
vacation but she's got a she's 196 days
so she's got she worked it differently
for her contract okay
um the superintendent contractors these
others are hers was a shorter time
period I think there's a there was a
little difference she's looking at it
strictly four days whereas other school
districts looked at almost 24 7 for
um as far as I could tell 24 7 for a
shorter period
of time
changed oh
instead of 30.
it would be
the number of reimbursements it would be
it would be in the year I mean it would
be 20 paid vacations annually
in June uh July 1st to June 30th
so that's why it says 30.
so like in his second yeah got it okay
so
I'm just curious what did you come up
with with what do you propose others are
proposing for numbers
try what what number are you thinking
for what what number for the vacation
days what what are you guys proposing 15
yeah 15 15.
15. yeah we the three of us are said 15.
I said 10. oh sorry
and I was I was looking at 10 but I was
wondering what are we looking at for
total annual days is it 260 or is it
um I guess where did the
was it's
five days a week and it's for a year he
doesn't get Summers off okay
and if that's the same so
um
15 and then what was it for a maximum
what was the reimbursement 10
.
oh on the last line I had put 20 not 30.
um that seems 20 seems
um no she's talking about N2
the 30 days
yeah so unused vacation May accumulate
from year to year for up to
Vice chair said 20 days not 30 right
now is that I'm just wondering how that
falls in line with
um
okay so we have is in our contracts
already that they've been the same this
has sort of come over several years any
accumulated unused vacation days shall
be paid to the superintendent upon
termination of employment not to exceed
20 days in total at his daily rate to be
calculated by dividing the number of
days of the contract by the contract
amount
that's
that's what we have in the in the
language right now I mean in sort of the
language we've had over this last
several years
so at this point I'll put 20 as the
unused accumulate since it falls in with
the other is consistent with our other
contracts
to have that consistency
um okay and we're striking
we're striking little I and little two
uh Roman numeral two becomes little by
Roman numeral one
Keith what's your vote on days of paid
vacation
good um I'm good I think good
hey uh
so 15 10 15.
15. and then Margie
it's for which one the the paid and then
what did you say 15 15 and what are the
others what is what's 15 okay 15.
yes 15 on that one in agreement with
that one and little I was I guess people
were saying 20 to be consistent
yeah the new the new little life yeah
[Music]
um actually the the vacation and sick
leave what we did have before which I
didn't realize until I dug into our
contracts the superintendent shall
inform the clerk in advance of the use
of vacation leave vacation stays taken
will be taken at such a time as will
least interfere with the performance of
the superintendent's duties so it may be
something to put in here that it
somebody's notified
on that
um but that's what we did have in our
that's what we've had in our prior
contracts what was that that they that
they have to notify the superintendent
shall inform the clerk in advance of the
use of vacation leave vacation days
taken by the superintendent will be
taken at such time or times as will
least interfere with the performance of
the superintendent's Duty
and it's
there okay and I think that makes sense
actually that I think that makes sense
um because otherwise somebody leaves and
we don't know it so it does make sense
no I would agree with that it's just
common sense
okay and
addition
okay so we'll add must notify
and that seemed to be at the
maybe at the big maybe it needs to be a
separate
uh maybe it becomes a Big C or something
everything moves down or it can be at
the top I'm just trying to
um
maybe it should be just the little lie
what was that yeah it could be the
little eye we could just the
superintendent could change that wording
out okay that's a good idea
all right so that becomes the little I
and then the little and then the two
little twos the uh um Roman numeral two
stays the same
Okay so
can we what
okay
trustee Barton would you like me to do
that since I kind of got the other
language here yes please
okay so this is going to be
section this is um D Big D the
superintendent shall receive 15 days of
paid vacation annually exclusive of
legal holidays
then it goes
um with that little eye then the super
little lie the superintendent shall
inform the clerk in advance of the use
of vacation leave vacation days taken by
the superintendent will be taken at such
time or times as will least interfere
with the performance of the
superintendent's duties
then little two stays the same upon
retirement or termination the
superintendent shall be entitled to
receive reimbursement for a maximum of
20 days of unused accumulated vacation I
think in little I we also need to add
that he cannot or the superintendent can
take congruent weeks so that if
potentially he wanted to take or this
superintendent would want to take three
weeks that's a lot of time away from our
school so no more than 10 congruent days
school days
I don't know if that's an option but
five and less less authorized is what
Troy suggested
five concurrent days unless authorized
can we add that to I
um yes let me just I'm trying to
authorize by the board
Troy
let me
um writing it in here as neatly
how many days was he supposed to give
his notice
I can't remember what she said
it's a standard though and then at the
end of it so at the end of it um where I
say the super where we say the
superintendent shall inform the clerk in
advance of the use of vacation leave
vacation days by the superintendent will
be taken at such time or times as we'll
least interfere with the performance of
the superintendent's duties
no days
um
what would
um trustee Barton did you write down
what trustee Reinbold said
something about being non no more than
five concurrent days in a row unless
approved by the board okay no more then
five congruent days
five congruent business days
school days school days
okay so I will put his school days grab
that and put that in but we'll have to
okay okay
foreign
[Music]
yes please
the district shall lease or otherwise
procure a vehicle with a a model year no
older than 10 years with all-wheel drive
or four-wheel drive capabilities for the
superintendent's exclusive use the
superintendent may use the vehicle for
personal or official business the
district shall be responsible for all
maintenance registration insurance and
fuel for the vehicle's operation the
superintendent shall not be eligible for
mileage reimbursement regardless of the
vehicle that is driven
[Music]
okay the
the
reason that's there is superintendents
are always reimbursed for mileage
other districts
have this provision for superintendents
because it's actually cheaper if we paid
actual miles
just let me finish
if we paid actual mileage
reimbursement it would cost the district
more
numbers
[Music]
is
I I understand we're going through this
just
point of order okay we're going through
this one line at a time that was the
justification we're talking about it
that's why we're going through this line
by line yeah okay I mean
I am I am uncomfortable doing the um I'm
uncomfortable doing the car I would give
the flat mileage and I think that yes um
superintendent
um I'm looking at what uh superintendent
Branham had
um in her contract
um
it was it just said shall reimburse the
superintendent for mileage I believe
superintendent Al Salmo had a flat rate
we would have to look at what the cost
of gas because what we're doing is we're
um
it's looking at the cost of gas and the
mile the mileage
um
so I would rather do just a flat rate at
this point in time and not invest in a
yes order so I I agree with Margie but I
also feel like we need to make sure that
we put a stipulation in there that says
mileage from district office most
businesses you come to you have to go to
the district office or the headquarters
and your mileage starts there
foreign
if you'd like the 200 or mileage from
the district office it's
it's the choice of the superintendent
what did we give Paul was it a 400 200
200 it was for sure and the thing is
with gas going up we we have to realize
that it would be
and there's some I looked at I think I
looked at um Lake Ponderay and I'd have
to pull that up theirs was a little I
think theirs was a little bit higher I'd
have to
well mileage is set rate by the state
staff typically what the system hit can
you talk in Susie
so staff and superintendents before
principals they they drive to their
point of work and they do not get
reimbursed for mileage however during
the day if there's a reason for a staff
member like if we have teachers that
teach at multiple schools then they turn
in that mileage and then where you end
your day is you don't get mileage to go
home so it's just within the day and
then for the superintendent the you know
the end principals there are meetings in
Coeur d'Alene that we travel to so then
again it would be from district office
or your site
to that site and then back is typically
how the district has done that and then
we just filled in a mileage
but
and so is that from
like you say for the specialized
meetings is that then in addition to the
200 a month for the I guess you you will
have to decide that as far as what
you're thinking that it would cost with
the increase in one way to go for yours
pardon is that what we did for yours
I when if I travel to Coeur d'Alene for
meetings I put in that mileage I have
not put in any mileage traveling to
schools
[Applause]
Vice chair I you I could for in you know
going in between the buildings
you're traveling but I can't charge the
mileage coming down from the lake to
work
do we have an agreement on them so
what's the wait a minute I'm going to
rewrite this
um
so we are striking the vehicle and we
are going to say
um I'm just looking at the language that
we have in the other contracts
and right now
um
the prior contracts we have the district
shall reimburse the superintendent for
mileage traveled incurred by the
superintendent in the continuing
performance as superintendent Studio
under this addendum said reimbursement
shall be in accordance with the
allowance authorized by the Internal
Revenue code of the United States of
America so do we say that that is um and
then mileage from mileage
mileage from district office or yes
um
mileage from District
reimbursement commences with mileage
from district office yes okay okay so
use the language that we've got in the
prior contracts and then just say
mileage reimbursement starts from the
district office or
um if they office to office yeah
okay
are we are we moving on yeah okay could
you read F please yep F the
superintendent shall be provided a term
life insurance policy with the payoff
benefit equal to the base annual salary
of the superintendent
okay is that in our previous contracts
no no and what um
let me just put a note here so I'm going
to say see mileage
um no and what um Ferndale uh fruit
Ferndale uh fruit land has
in theirs is that
um
life insurance premium only if offered
through Fruitland
um
school districts benefit program
so I would strike it it's not we don't
have it currently it's not um and I
would
you know we can revisit it if it were
part of the it could be Revisited if it
became part of the benefit package for
the
well I think we covered it actually we
we would technically cover it up up
under B that's what I was going to ask
is it under District
um yes provided benefits French okay
yeah so that cross it out yes okay
G the district will pay one half of the
superintendent's monthly Percy
contribution
okay I have an interesting conversation
on this one
um McCall Donnelly I called because of
um they aren't going they aren't at a
four day school week they are at a
five-day school week but their housing
issues I anticipated might be similar to
ours
um I did have the business manager down
there told me that they had actually
when they were re negotiating their
contract with their superintendent
a year ago or so they looked at this one
but they said
basically when they did the deeper dive
into this is that
you and I'm going to try to make this
simplified which I don't always do
um
you have your salary
and if you provide your this person the
superintendent half their personal Percy
that becomes the
cumulative amount that then the full
Percy has to be paid on
and so for when they calculated it out
down in McCall Donnelly it actually
ended up being like eighteen thousand
dollars more than they anticipated when
they did that so my recommendation is to
strike it we don't want to go down there
because it gets
um basically it will cost us more than
we really know and it takes a long it
will take some time to go through there
but you have your salary and you
normally the salary Percy is paid on
that so if you do half the Percy the
employees Percy plus the salary then the
full Percy is paid on those two that's
what you're saying see so that's where
you get the extra amount and it can be a
surprise
and it was more of a surprise to McCall
Donnelly than they thought and they
didn't put it in
okay so I would suggest recommend my
suggestion would be is to scratch that
one
okay
thank you
that's that's my background part of it
moving on H the superintendent shall be
entitled to work remotely during
non-instructional periods such as school
breaks however the superintendent must
be available to return to the district
office or other District facilities
should an emergency require
[Music]
I think it should be from just the
district office
that might cost us a little more to go
to the the different schools but I think
that that's a good basic starting point
so from
um go back reimbursement of mileage from
from district office to
to other District facilities Maybe
to other District of facilities rather
than just from mileage from district
office to other District facilities
correct yeah okay
that's a good question is do we want to
include summer in District
I would say legal holidays
or vacation time
would be my suggestion
yeah so I would think
um
I would say
instead of school breaks it would be
legal legal holidays
legal holidays and
vacation
okay so help give me direction on H this
is H that we're rewriting
superintendents show
be entitled to work remotely
during non-instructural periods such as
we're making it legal holidays
or uh vacation
okay so I I struck school breaks to be
legal holidays or vacation
um
yes he asked him to work remotely so
I guess the question would be though is
how how
um
is there a time frame I mean after we've
all been through covid is there a time
frame that we want to a Time amount that
we want to allow do we want to put
parameters about working remotely
[Music]
okay
anymore do we or just strike it
I
I mean I I would say that since covid
um there have been more you know people
have been working remotely and
um
I would say Jackie actually works a day
or two remotely Jackie was working
yeah
um
it might be it might be worth sort of
saying that superintendent shall be
entitled to work remotely during the
none well it's non-instructional period
so it's when if they're not working
Friday if they're not if school's not in
session on Friday are they working from
home
so they don't have to come back and
forth that they can actually work from
home yeah
[Music]
thinking
well we
um
I would think it's not in our prior
contracts it hasn't been in our prior
contracts and
um and I would
if there there is room and I
well no it wasn't in Jackie she just she
just did she just did
so I think it's just
um you know and there's times
I think we look at how we include that I
don't know if others do I mean basically
the addendums I've seen nobody's
included that but I think it's basically
could say I'm work you know people have
had that flexibility a little bit over
the last couple of years yeah
um
okay do we just strike I would suggest
striking it at this point let's just
strike it
[Applause]
okay
I
the district will provide the
superintendent a monthly housing
allowance of 500 the housing allowance
shall only be applicable for housing
located within the district's boundaries
this shall be considered taxable income
for the tax reporting purposes
foreign
[Music]
I do have trouble with this one allowing
because I know that there's are people
who good people who have
um applied to this area I mean it's um
and not been able to find the housing
and I think we would be setting a
precedent at this time we do need to
look at housing and housing issues but
I'm not sure we want to start a
precedent at this time and I did talk
with again I called McCall Donnelly
because they were you know I figured
they would run into the same issues and
they are not at this they need they're
not allowing a housing allowance at this
time
[Music]
no but it it's um
it's advantageous for him to be in in
the district
correct the the the the argument behind
this is that typically
typically
superintendents get a 500 per diem
somewhere
so net per diem is used
yes
just just a minute let me finish
it was it was thought that this 500 a
month housing per diem only is used for
housing nothing else per diems what's
that
that's what
okay which I think this could get a very
this could be really sticky I don't I'm
not in agreement with it I think we
should okay
that's what we're here to discuss
please
so would it do excuse me what did
trustee Barton what did you just say
I said this could be a very
um this is a kind of an open-ended very
sticky
um
precedence that were that we might
potentially be opening
I don't
and with the housing costs starting to
go back down
housing is getting easier to find
I think
I I would
my feeling on this one is to strike it
at this point in time because I just I
feel like we're setting president and we
also again are trying to
we have
um
we've got to make the budget overall
budget work we have other needs still
um if we weren't
there
I mean if they if we had all lots of
money but at this point we don't so I
don't feel comfortable with this one
um we've given our current situation
okay Troy what do you think
all right everyone in agreement with
that well
we're scratching it
what was that or
scratching are you good at that
all right do you want to read the next
one yeah just give me a second here
Jay the district will provide the
superintendent a one-time re location
reimbursement of 2000 for costs incurred
for moving this shall not be considered
taxable income for tax reporting
purposes
chose
that's that's um standard procedure when
someone's moving from out of state
or from I mean from out of the area
that's
um
I'm I'm just saying that that's standard
operating procedure
[Music]
I'm trying to look
um contract
but we never did we we did we pulled we
pulled it because contract
no um we he he asked for it and we
pulled it okay so we
um we he we didn't we did not and we did
not include it
um I was trying to see if he made I kept
the comments on here but um
now we we did not we not we did not give
it to him
Okay so
um
being consistent then I would say we
remove it okay
I would agree I just um
I would agree
is that is that in agreement is are we
in agreement on that one to scratch that
one
okay
I mean I don't think two thousand
dollars is a lot of money to pay but I'm
just one vote so okay
thank you
can you speak into the mic I said I
don't think two thousand dollars for
reimbursement is a lot of money but I am
just one vote
[Music]
so
um would it um
so how many um
trustee I guess Ryan um trustee reimble
and trustee Barton what was yours I
couldn't hear should we be
trusty burning rainbow what's your
opinion I'm okay with striking it okay
what about you for it
I think
maybe I don't know I'm looking at how
much you make he's willing to work for a
year
[Music]
I'm looking at how much he's going to be
drawing a year compared to other people
just a minute
and I so I just don't know that
that maybe he's not entitled to
reimbursement but we could certainly use
it as negotiation
is
[Music]
n't normal
yeah
[Music]
I agree okay
um
so I'm going to go it sounds like the
board's leaning so I can know how to
edit this I'm going to strike just
strike it okay
Okay so
okay on the benefits
there's we've got one more we have one
more okay
it's okay
the superintendent the superintendent
shall have access to utilize any
District provided meal services at any
District school for free of charge okay
just a second wait for negotiation let
me
I I'm gonna say strike it but the reason
for it is he wanted to have access
anytime with kids to to be interacting
with kids that's the only reason it was
there
I said strike it yeah okay
[Applause]
I want to put one footnote to that of
please I wanted to add one more piece to
that um
somebody pointed out that um the
actually the federal funding program
that funds this school the Food Services
the terms and conditions might not allow
it and that teachers do pay so it may
not have been even allowed even if we
wanted to do it I think there's
um Federal programs it is standard
protocol to have a food service Bill and
he can deduct it directly from his
paycheck most teachers do that so he has
access to do that
okay
so
although are we done yeah okay all those
in favor of the benefits section one
benefits
um the way it's marked up all those in
favor please say aye aye
aye aye those opposed okay section one
is done
okay
since you're doing a great job leading
would you like me to continue sure yes
please okay
so two work schedule the
superintendent's contract year for
purposes of computing per diem show
consist of 265 work days the
superintendent shall be entitled to the
following holidays New Year's Day
Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day
Thanksgiving Christmas for days off as
our other certified District
administrators
so I could
yeah
did I say 265 I strike that I meant to
say 260.
I apologize
and I I guess the question here is do we
want to stick with the 260 that's that
seemed to be I mean there were other 233
240 there was a little bit less I would
throw out
um boundary County Superintendent um
bear there it's a little bit of a low
one low ball well
so I guess do we stick with 260 work
days or do we alter that work number of
work days that was his suggestion it was
260. okay so I think we should honor
that okay
okay
any any more changes okay all those in
favor of section two as stated please
say aye aye aye any opposed okay section
two is accepted
number three communication the board
individually and collectively agrees to
promptly refer criticisms and
suggestions called to its attention to
the superintendent for study and
recommendation
the superintendent shell as appropriate
inform the board of problems which arise
so the board members can be prepared to
deal with such questions within the
district
the board shall provide bi-annual
evaluations one of which shall be in
written form as mutually agreed upon
I'm sorry what was that
I haven't looked at it yet I'm in the
middle of doing something else
um
well for that thank you let's go ahead
and continue on for the record neither
candidate holds a superintendent
certification
I read the letter I'm
eager
your concerns are actually will be
addressed I should say under determined
um Roman numeral eight termination of
employment contract that's where it will
be this is just strictly Communications
um
that's where that part will be addressed
thank you
this is pretty standard I think we
should accept it
good
um this is that this paragraph is pretty
much been pulled out of the other
superintendent
um contract addendums I mean this is
this is pretty much verbatim it's pretty
standard and the superintendent like
Sandy says the board governs and the
superintendent manages the district and
they also have to protect the board in
the event that there is information we
are we share limited information with
the board in case there ends up a
grievance or the Board needs to handle
something so we protect them as well
okay
are we in agreement yes yes all those in
favor of section three communication
please say aye aye
those opposed
okay section three is checked off
section 4 goals and objectives the board
and the superintendent shall Endeavor to
meet on or before October 1st for the
purpose of establishing District goals
and objectives for the ensuing school
year the agreed goals and objectives
will be reduced to writing and to the
extent applicable may be considered by
the board in evaluating the
superintendent subject to the board
approval the superintendent will have
freedom to organize reorganize and
arrange the administrative and
supervisory staff including the
instruction and business Affairs which
is which in his judgment best serve the
district
the responsibility for selection
placement or transfer and transfer a
Personnel shall be vested in the
superintendent subject to approval by
the board
okay I have an addition here it would be
at the end of the second to the last
sentence
where it says subject subject to board
approval the superintendent will have
freedom to organize reorganize and
arrange the administrative and
supervisory staff including instruction
and business Affairs which in his
judgment best serve the district and I
would add in accordance with negotiated
agreements and board approved policies
foreign
it would be in accordance with
negotiated agreements and board approved
policies and then it would say the
responsibility for selection placement
and transfer of personnel shall be
vested in the superintendent subject to
approval by the board
okay yep any other any other comments on
section four
um can you read it completely just as
it's all now
Okay so
section
um for goals and objectives here's the
full piece
the board and the superintendent shall
Endeavor to meet on or before October
1st for the purpose of establishing
District goals and objectives for the
ensuing school year
the agreed goals and objectives will be
reduced to writing and to the extent
applicable may be considered by the
board in evaluating the superintendent
subject to board approval the
superintendent will have the freedom to
organize reorganize and rearrange the
administrative and supervisory staff
including instruction and business
Affairs which in his judgment best
served the district and then in
accordance with a negotiated agreements
agreement and board approved policies
the responsibility for selection
placement and transfer Personnel shall
be vested in the superintendent subject
to approval by the board
I think one other thing I'd like to add
there under the district the first
sentence where it says
establishing District goals and
objectives for the ensuing year
um
according to the district the five years
the district's five-year strategic plan
yes I think we need to keep pointing
back to that and not lose sight of that
our school starts in September right so
why is it important to me
um we have to do the continuous
Improvement plan by and Stephanie might
know this we have to it's it's the
continuous Improvement plan is due to
the State Board of Education by October
1st so I'm not sure if there's two
pieces to that because if you're
restructuring any staffing I don't know
that you would do that October 1st it
seems like that doesn't follow with the
school calendar
is that well actually what we've got in
the other one is the board and
superintendent shall meet during the
first quarter of each school year
to establish District goals and
objectives for the school year and
review these goals prior to the end of
the school year
so I would say a year to establish
District goals and objectives according
to the five-year strategic plan and
um okay
and then that other piece is actually
due October 1st to the state that the
continuous Improvement plan but that our
district has a five-year strategic plan
that you wanna
um
so all right so let's see how this fits
together
[Music]
okay
your your question was how does how does
this function is that is that what you
okay
um
that's what I was wondering
okay perfect
so no not necessarily
um
[Music]
that's not last minute it's it's
um
well the piece that Margie put in there
was in accordance to the five years five
years strategic
in accordance okay in accordance to the
will you waited that again negotiated
agreement with negotiated agreement
which means so he can't can't
unilaterally go in and change it if you
have contracts in place okay you can't
go void a contract
okay
um so he can't come in and just
arbitrarily
unilaterally go in and make a decision
that that has to be
well
yeah negotiated in accordance with the
negotiated contracts yep so we know
negotiated agreement and board approval
and teacher negotiated contracts are
usually done in the spring
so could it be in accordance with
negotiated agreement
agreements because agreements
but it would be and board approved abort
I should say in accordance with
negotiated agreements comma board
approved policies and procedures
and on board approval
so that
be an important thing to add the board
shall consider the district's goals and
objectives in addition to other
appropriate criteria in their evaluation
of
the Supreme Court that is rules and
objectives on Jackson's contract okay so
let's see
the prior person
so let me see I'm going to try to put
this together in a place I can
I know my writing is really terrible
okay so goals and objectives do we want
to start out with the board
superintendent shall meet during the
first quarter of each year school year
to establish District goals and
objectives according to the five-year
strategic plan for the school year and
review these goals prior to the end of
the school year
the board shall consider the district
goals and objectives in addition to
other appropriate criteria in the
evaluation of the superintendent and
then we would put
um
subject to board approval oh we've got
it at the end a beginning subject to
board approval
the superintendent will have the freedom
to organize and reorganize and range
administrative and supervisory staff
including instruction business Affairs
which in his which in his judgment best
served the district in accordance with
negotiated agreement and board approved
policies and procedures
um before I started this out with
subject to board approval so I'm not
sure we're being redundant if we put
board approval at the end yeah yes sure
so in accordance with um
negotiated agreements and board approved
policies and procedures
um yeah so yeah I think if you subject
to board approved policies and
procedures just above that that sentence
just above it
okay so subject to board
approved
policies and procedures
the superintendent will have the freedom
words
yeah so what
they had someone with a loaded word
well no who's got to be done by Corners
with Polish no it's it's done in
accordance to the policies
how about we just put how about we do
this how about we put um subject to
board approval the superintendent May
organize reorganize and arrange the
administrative and super super
supervisory staff including instruction
and business Affairs which is in his
um maybe we a strike witches in his
judgment so maybe we strike which in his
judgment and we'll have freedom instead
Place May
that instead of say which in his
judgment you say that best serves the
district in accordance with
yes
so again super subject to board approval
the superintendent May re May organize
reorganize or and or arrange the
administrative and supervisory staff
including instruction in business
affairs
to best serve the district
in accordance in accordance to get
policy in accordance with negotiate
agreements and board approved policies
and procedures and then the
responsibility and I think strike the
last can we
strike the last sentence or leave the
last sentence this responsibility for
selection placement and transfer of
personnel shall be vested in the
superintendent subject to approval by
the board that's actually in our
policies but yeah let's strike that
because then it's not redundant but it
it is part of the Board responsibility
in our policies okay so it's already
stated it doesn't have to be in a
conflict it because you've yeah okay you
can draw a straight line
all right so we start out with I'm gonna
have to
um can you give kind of try to redo this
okay so
that's true
the board and superintendent shall meet
during the first quarter of each school
year to establish District goals and
objectives according to the five-year
strategic
strategic plan
for the school year and review these
goals prior to the end of the school
year
the board shall consider the district
goals and objectives in addition to
other appropriate criteria in their
evaluation of the superintendent
the agreed goals and objectives I don't
know if we need this one the great goals
and objectives will be reduced to
writing and to the extent applicable I
would since we were trying to follow the
five-year strategic plan I think I would
suggest getting rid of this one getting
rid of that sentence and then just so
just start with subject to board
approval the superintendent May
so I would suggest that we in what we
have for tonight the goals and
objectives delete the first two
sentences
put in what we have in our have had in
our other contracts and and go with
subject to a board approval the
superintendent May organize reorganize
and arrange the administration
administrative and supervisory staff
including instruction business Affairs
to best serve the district in accordance
with negotiated agreements and board
approved policies and procedures
okay does that word simplifies it
I'm in agreement I'm fine with that okay
is everyone okay with that yep yep okay
all those in favor of goals and
objectives
those opposed okay goals and objectives
are done five outside work the
superintendent with the approval of the
Board of Trustees here and after the
board May undertake consultive speaking
engagements writing lecturing and or
other professional duties and
obligations that do not conflict with
his duties as superintendent in our
accordance with the law
um I have some additions to this one
just to run these by first is at the end
of this oh sorry maybe not so it's at
um we could get the right page okay at
the end of this one I'm suggesting that
we put
um
lost it um
that after are in accordance with the
law and not in conflict with the
established goals and objectives of the
district
and not in conflict with the established
goals objectives and policies and
procedures of the district
can we just strike that I mean is that
something that needs to be in there he's
going to be working 200 or the
superintendent Works 260 days
so
I I personally don't see a problem with
it
[Music]
that's that has been in all the other
superintendents yes that has been in the
other yeah that was in my contract as
well because there are times that you're
asked to do public speaking
so
so Margie would you go ahead and repeat
that one more time
okay so what I'm suggesting to put um
the superintendent with the approval of
the Board of Trustees Karen
after the board and I think actually
that's redundant so I would just say the
superintendent with the approval of the
board strike the strike that other
section May undertake consultative
speaking engagement writing lecturing or
other professional duties and
obligations that do not conflict with
this Duty as superintendent or are in
accordance with the law
and
are not in conflict with the established
goals objectives policies and procedures
of the district
well that would be an open meetings
um well the with the approval of the
board that should be if it's the
approval of the board to go do the
outside work it would need to be
presented in front of a an action item
in the open meeting right yep
okay
I'll agree to that yeah
okay so and not
have to translate these
um
uh
[Music]
we'll cross that bridge when we get
there
okay so
um are we in an agreement so we can move
on
okay
agreement five okay okay so all those in
agreement with five say aye aye aye
those opposed okay
six
the superintendent with the board
approval May attend appropriate
professional meetings at local state and
National level with reasonable expenses
at said attendance to be paid by the
district the cost incurred for National
level travel shall not exceed 2500 per
fiscal year expenses for any of these
meetings must be within the amount
approved in The District budget
um we do have um which is professional
meetings yes we have a standard contract
the superintendent May attend
appropriate professional meetings at the
local and state level with reasonable
expenses that set attendance to be paid
by the district the superintendent may
also appropriate National level
professional may also attend appropriate
National level professional meetings
upon approval by the board with
reasonable expenses and set attendance
to be paid by the district expenses for
any of these meetings must be within the
amount approved by the District budget
so in this case he's there's a cap on
the national level travel
it is with board approval it it does
have such and it says within the budget
yeah
yeah so it has to come through and I
think
um
I would say the superintendent with
prior board approval May attend
appropriate professional meetings at the
local state and National level
now maybe is to put prior in there yeah
I put it with um with prior board
approval they attend
and I think it's probably makes sense I
mean we have it in the National level I
mean it's in the other contracts um
that we've had since and it was included
this contract that went to Jackie those
sort of came forward from Paul and um
it's been around these have been this is
language that's been around for a long
time
but I think putting a cap on the
national level travel because National
level travel nowadays can get expensive
so capping it is not a bad idea
okay
any other changes
okay all those in favor of section
six professional meetings say aye aye
aye aye those opposed okay number six
it's good
number seven access to council and a
meet and indemnification
I'm gonna butcher that word too
so number seven access to council and
indemnification
when acting on behalf of the district or
in the performance of any duties or
responsibilities of superintendent for
the district the superintendent shall
have full access to legal counsel as
paid by the district
the district agrees to defend hold
harmless and
identify identify
sorry you guys the
superintendent and spouse from any and
all demands claims suits actions and
legal proceedings brought against the
superintendent for all non-criminal
incidents arising while the
superintendent is acting within the
scope of his employment
it it's the so it's hold up let her
speak
um access to council indemnification
that language is basically the same
except obviously and spouse I've been
when I had conversations today I I crimp
won't pay for the spouse it would be if
that happened it would and that person
is not an employee so I would strike and
spouse
um because it would be the district that
would be having to put the bill I crimp
would not fit the bill our insurance
company would not fit the bill
um foot the bill not fit it but um foot
the bill and I don't know in our
language it adds more language in this
current contract it just says the board
agrees to defend hold harmless and
indemnify the superintendent for all
non-criminal incidences arising when the
superintendent is acting within the
course and scope of of his employment so
it would be
if we could just strike all the
different from any all demands claims
suits actions and legal proceedings and
just sit from all
um non-criminals for all non-criminal
incidences arising so strike from to
um for to all non-criminal incidences
so and spouse so let's reread it the
district agrees to defend hold harmless
and indemnify the superintendent
from all non-criminal incidences arising
while the superintendent is acting
within the scope of employment
okay okay all those in favor
aye aye aye those opposed okay
section seven take care eight
germination of employment contract a if
during the term of this contract it is
found that a specific Clause of the
contract is illegal in federal or state
law the remainder of the contract not
affected by such a ruling shall remain
in force B the agreement in is
contingent on the superintendent
obtaining and maintaining in Idaho
superintendent certificate or a
provisional certificate or other
qualifying designation which allows him
to conduct the duties of superintendent
as per Idaho law throughout the term of
this agreement C the superintendent's
contract may be terminated for a cause
if a super majority of the board in its
sole discretion determines that one the
superintendent has significantly failed
or refused to act in accordance with any
provisions of this agreement or any
directive or other
or order of the board the super 2 the
superintendent has exhibited gross
misconduct or dishonesty in regard to
his employment three the superintendent
is or has acted in bad hold on where to
go or has been convicted of a crime
involving dishonesty breach of trust or
physical emotion harm to any person or
for the superintendent has acted in bad
faith to the detriment of the district
D in the event of termination for cause
the board shall provide the
superintendent a written statement of
its intent to terminate and its reasons
for termination the superintendent is
entitled to meet with the board in
closed session within 30 calendar days
of the ins istence
of the written statement the
superintendent may present evidence to
the board to rebut the stated reasons
for termination after the superintendent
has had an opportunity to respond to the
stated reason for termination the board
will make a final decision in writing
e if the superintendent intends to
terminate this agreement he shall do so
by March 1st in the school year prior to
his resignation termination of this
agreement after March 1st
in the school year prior to his
resignation shall constitute a material
breach of contract it may result at the
board's sole discretion in the forefoot
of any post-employment
remuneration yes that word right there
remuneration including the compensation
for unused vacation or other type
that's the mouthful so on this one
um under Item B can we start with a oh a
sure yep
so a if during the term of this contract
it is found that a specific Clause of
the contract is illegal in federal or
state law the remainder of the contract
not affected by such a ruling shall be
shall remain in force
and
I
I didn't have a problem with that one
are we in agreement yes
yes
all in favor for I then
we'll go through we'll have to we'll do
like we did before on the other one so
you want to just do one at a ten yeah
yeah okay B this agreement is contingent
on the superintendent obtaining and
maintaining an Idaho superintendent
certificate certification or a
provisional certificate or other
qualifying designation which allows him
to conduct the duties of superintendent
as per Idaho law throughout the term of
this agreement
to fit
the board will provide or apply for his
provisional certificate
no
no it's the the State Board of Education
and the emergency provisional
certification is reviewed by the State
Board of Education
and
so I have something to add to be let me
add it first and then um if it's okay at
the end of B I wanted to add if
certification or designation is not
received then the contract is null and
void it's
on it
and then
one of my questions is that throughout
the term of this agreement and it's
the term of the agreement it does need
to go the certification does need to be
reviewed and decided on
so throughout the term of this agreement
there is sort of a chicken in an egg
situation where it does have to go in
front of the State Board of Education
State Board of Education really does
need to give a review and and give an
answer on that emergency provisional
certification
so the way I read this is
what's that
um
the no well go ahead go ahead
let me look sorry
um
for Idaho
it may be there may be a possibility
that the other qualifying designation is
that they're another state might provide
a designation
is the other as is potentially but it
would be up to this state you know the
first step is for the State Board of
Education to review the emergency
provisional
um that's up to the State Board of
Education to decide
that's what they call it
that's their terminology
okay there is no qualified candidate on
our staff
yes
okay
neither candidate has a superintendent's
certificate
okay neither one
neither one of them apply I'm talking
about the staff member that might be
qualified that did not apply
can you still consider it an emergency
situation
the way
we had the job posting open we had four
candidates apply one dropped out we had
three candidates left of the three one
of them had all of the certifications so
completely
able to step into that
had also
all fit again the only choice you
was that third person with all the
certifications okay he dropped out
that leaves us with two candidates okay
two candidates that we have have no
certification okay wait just just
there's two different types of
certification all the alternative
authorization and the emergency
provisional certification
and there's two different tracks there's
state board of education has to look at
the emergency provisional certification
review it I think the state state board
of education probably also has to
authorize do the alternative
authorization
um on that and
um
just
I have put in a letter for the State
Board of Education to request requesting
that they review and make a decision in
an expedited way on the emergency
provisional
um
[Music]
that's because they did not apply for
the position
they did not apply for the position
[Music]
s
in the long run
I think it's the name of the provision
at the State Board level so there's
there's an alternate route for certified
teachers or admin to go into so since I
was the other candidate and I am not
certified if I would have been selected
then it would have been this alternate
route and since this gentleman didn't
have the teaching certificate that I had
then the other piece is called emergency
provision so it sounds like an emergency
but it's just the title of that
something bad down the road because they
dropped him in an emergency
Department
you mean as far as the State Board of
Education
is that
well there's there's a province you I I
don't know all the criteria for
emergency provision if it's just of one
year but there would be steps that a
candidate would have to take
Steffy do you have those steps or any of
the information that we need yeah I have
what happens
and the decision
what I mean everything he did
[Music]
and then come in August with Idaho State
Board of Education said we will not
bring him this provision he cannot be
your superintendent what happens to
everything that he had done between June
when we started and that decision or he
can he not start with us
the other thing in system B is it it's
con is contingent and maybe stepping I
don't know if this is where we maybe go
through this and then figure out are
there questions for the lawyer for the
attorney
the interim until he gets his
qualifications no
he starts it will start next week
okay
just point of clarification
Susie does not have her certification on
it
okay
yes
he did
he
[Music]
I was with I got the letter
it doesn't matter I already know
together
[Music]
I don't remember when I saw the the
letter that's that's in material at this
point
[Music]
number two
he was not honest
to gain employment
forecast
[Music]
stated that he completed that we all now
know he did not complete it you're
saying that you knew before you go over
the rest because we're still trying to
listen did you know before and after you
vote for Miss University superintended
I didn't get that until afterwards
[Music]
what are the address information until
now no
I haven't had
I'm sorry say again
no I heard about a letter I haven't seen
it
[Music]
don't worry
okay Hickory he
he completed
the class for this he's got his
[Applause]
[Music]
gift
okay two women may concern this letter
seeks to clarify why Boise State
University's Executive educational
leadership program is not able to offer
an institution institutional
recommendation to Brandon Durst for
certification
as an Idaho administrator or
superintendent
under the current Idaho administrative
code rules governing uniformity idapa
8-2-2 section
015-03b superintendent endorsement which
states the following
to be eligible for superintendent
endorsement the candidate must meet the
following requirements
Holden education specialist
or doctorate degree which he does
I have an ed specialist
okay
a complete or complete a compatible
postmasters six-year program in an
accredited college University
have four years of full-time
certificated license experience working
with students while under contract with
an accredited school setting
okay
no but there's more
complete and administrative internship
and a state board approved program
uh for the superintendent endorsement
and have one year of out-of-state
experience as an assistant to
or have one year of out-of-state
experience as an assistant
superintendent
or superintendent provide verification
of completion
of an approved program with at least 30
semester credit hours which he has
of postmaster's degree graduate study
for this preparation of school
superintendents as an accredited college
or university at an accredited college
or university what she has this program
in its School administrated
Administration must include
demonstration of proficiency in
conducting instructional and pupil
service staff evaluations based on
Statewide framework for evaluation and
demonstration of
competencies in Idaho standards for
superintendents in the state Idaho
standards of school principals that he's
got
receive an Institutional recommendation
for superintendent endorsement
okay
Brandon did graduate from our executive
educational leadership program in May of
2022 and completed items 1 3 and 4
through our program however without item
two we are not able to offer item four
please call
if you have any questions or would like
to discuss further sincerely okay that's
what the that's what the emergency
certification is for
it's only called an emergency
[Music]
no
no I knew that he didn't compete
complete item four I knew that
or item two I'm sorry I knew that he
didn't complete item two I was aware of
that
okay just let me finish wait let me
finish
okay
Brandon has been in contact with with
Heather Williams and Cena from the state
Board of Education okay they are talking
with each other this is the path forward
that they recommended the State Board of
Education recommended the emergency
authorization for this they're in
complete agreement with each other okay
there are also provisions
in work right now
to be able to help with districts like
ours that that can't find candidates
that don't meet this this requirement
okay
hold on a second no one's lying
nobody was lying
he completed
[Music]
this
Okay so
okay
[Music]
so
no it's not
[Applause]
you just think that we're done so so
hold on a second hold on point of order
so
point of order
no I'm the chair point of order wait
no
I live here too point of order
[Music]
um if I have to please
so
okay so just
just know that the final decision in
terms of his emergency provisional rests
with the State Board of Education
and that there's actually not been an
there's only been a couple of emerging
well there's I was told there's only
been two emergency provisionals that
have gone in front of the State Board of
Education and one is is they've only
approved one
but it this is the this is the this I I
understand that but this is the the
majority of the board
um voted on this candidate
um what we're trying to do you know
we've gone through this process we need
to have it
um you know
it's
the the decision is going to be you know
the state board and what
they're going to look at it that's why I
asked for an expedited review so we
could get an answer because of the
uncertainty with this community
[Music]
[Applause]
I haven't got all the information yet
we're not opening up another boat
differently today knowing what you know
and hearing what we're saying and
listening to the community I don't know
that you're right
so I don't know if I'd vote different
[Music]
right now I'm sticking with the Buena
border the information
that I have
[Music]
authority to make any drastic changes
a big plan
the plans
changes to our district and then if he
is not found to be able to get that
emergency waiver we're left one without
a superintendent but two having the
district that may be further divided and
have we already have that that's already
built into the contract
the attorney the district attorney where
it says the agreement is contingent on
the superintendent obtaining and
maintaining and then at the end of it as
per Idaho code throughout the term of
this agreement
so in my mind I want to understand that
better because if the agreement say
theoretically starts July 1st and he
doesn't have the certification then I in
my mind this agreement doesn't start
until he gets that um X emergency
provisional
that's where I would want to turn our
attorney our district attorney to
clarify if I'm correct in reading that
[Music]
Okay so
our current interim superintendent does
not have a certification now and she's
functioning
it doesn't matter just listen to me
listen to me
if he started next week
neither one of these people have a
certification
[Music]
[Applause]
through an alternative author she does
not
[Applause]
[Music]
I mean honestly
we appointed her in an emergency
situation to fill up foreign
[Applause]
[Music]
they didn't apply for the position
[Applause]
stop
in that time out but there's
time for a break not time that wasn't a
timeout I did I went like this
chair Rutledge would you mind if we took
it a quick quick break
okay
your time
no we're not
[Music]
a word no
okay we're gonna take a break
okay
[Music]
um I make a motion take take a a break
okay there's a motion take a break
five minutes
[Music]
yeah you can just do that
um
[Music]
but we will be able to fill his duties
okay just as we're done yes
[Music]
right
okay I I need it I have an electronic
copy of that would you like that a hard
copy or okay
I'm just here to help you with
everything
thank you
I don't know
my life
foreign
[Music]
alive
I just had East restaurant
[Music]
another video thank you very
much
Katie
[Music]
now I need paraffin identity
um
good afternoon
[Music]
foreign
yes
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
cheers
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
[Music]
foreign
new message
[Music]
here
we're all the way down to around
I thought there was no more chance for
others
looks like someone that anybody
acknowledged in the fact that he's going
to work for 60 000.
no none of them
selves
[Music]
thank you
to get in the cast
[Music]
okay
[Applause]
[Music]
pardon I just want to let her know
there's a lot of requests oh
oh wow thank you okay
[Music]
please
um
[Music]
[Applause]
yes
which is yeah
privatized app all the others oh I'm
sorry I didn't even know anything I see
it I was just just listening
[Music]
yeah it's it's pretty minuscule when you
look at it
was fun no
[Music]
well that's just yeah that's when it
gets paid right
because we're seeing Susie right now
that's only four
from
[Music]
your ending day in July superintendent
it's different I usually don't get paid
for July the whole month of July
um
so that's where you get the 12 and
that's how it is so if you do the 12
divided by
um
[Music]
10 months
for 12 months
[Music]
let me see
right
what did they really have on seat
I'm having a hard time reading now
because my vision's starting to go
me too and then my double vision is
kicking in so I'm like trying to read
not sound like a bumbling school
let's see how close I have to happen to
my face now
that's 45 years okay
you know and I'm still seeing devil
are you ready
I'm ready to go let's get this show on
the road yeah
it's time to go home guys
all right we're gonna finish this
[Music]
would you like me to continue yes so we
are on eight termination and employment
contract C the superintendent's contract
may be terminated for a cause if a super
majority of the wait wait hold on did we
finish up with B
oh no we didn't I apologize this
agreement is contingent on the
superintendent obtaining and maintaining
its Idaho superintendent certification
or a provisional certification
certificate or other qualifying
destinations which allow him to conduct
the duties of superintendent as per
Idaho law
throughout the term of this agreement
actually I had a comment on B that I was
asking to add to it if
I don't think we finished up with b or
you were starting to read C correct yes
I just reinstated okay I withdrassi
[Music]
if certification or designation not
received then contract null and void is
what I wanted to add to be
could you repeat that again one more
Dusty Hall
if certification or designation not
received then contract null and void
now it if when the State Board of
Education meets and they do not give him
an emergency
approval
right
now
they're scheduled to meet September 1st
supposed to learn
they made me before that
do they
yeah
[Music]
what's that
okay
yeah
he's the superintendent until he's not
a problem
[Music]
no no
you're not stupid
point of order
no
I don't know what you're talking about
um point of order
[Music]
I don't know what you're talking about
so
so how much money is he going to spend
and waste and Destroy of this District
in that month and then we find out he
doesn't cannot be this person please
that's not part of the agenda that's not
part of the agenda
so
it's hypothetical it's not a problem yes
what what safety does our district have
that
administrator
or classified staff or anybody that he
may decide to let go we have the ground
to come back and assume
because it requires
so I'm curious okay
again
we have a superintendent that does not
hold the credentials now
okay
so what is going to happen now is he's
going to apply for the Emergency
provision
and that's with the path we're going
on this
[Music]
okay Define graphics
so
okay he already knows we got a budget
shortfall
a border we're discussing this right now
okay
so can um I may want to come back if we
I would say let's keep going and then
come back to this one in terms of um
I mean I there's questions here that I
also have but I think maybe let's try to
go through the others get those cleaned
up and then come back and look at the
couple of those other ones
um
so
just
well the the other thing about this is
this contract
we're going through and hopefully it
will be one that can be used in the
future I mean we have not gone through
this addendum to this a degree in the in
so hopefully it can be used not just
once but we've spent a lot of time going
through it right now so this hopefully
is something that can be used for you
know potentially
and you guys should have already had
that I mean we we had one but this is a
you know this is an updated one
every contact can be up for negotiation
though even our teachers have negotiated
contracts this this is standard
procedure for any superintendent
okay this is
what about within 60 days
that would be
I think that would be reasonable because
I don't think any major decision should
be made before the the question of
certification is understood well
actually maybe maybe we should put in
there 90 days because of the conditional
because of September meeting so maybe we
put in 90 days and that's a pretty
standard contract 90 days
and that and the thing on that is that
it doesn't mean that there a plan cannot
come because if you go back to goals and
objectives under number four
we are looking at subject-to-board
approval those things that we would
talked about to have um
to be reorganized
that maybe reorgan organized Etc is in
accordance with negotiate agreement and
board approved policies and procedures
but if we put in the 90 days
I'm not sure where that goes though if
if we're looking at a major it may be
that under those
um maybe it goes under goals and
objectives is that no major no major
restructuring or or decisions may be
made within within 90 days until or
after the emergence after certification
or designation has been received
yeah
it has been looked at by legal counsel
and will be looked at again
it
it has been looked at by legal counsel
and it will look at again
was it with um
uh Brett Walter yes looked at it okay so
that's our legal council yes
so my suggestion is that Carlin what you
were looking at
um trustee Barton what you were looking
at was might fit basically under the
goals and objectives and that
section where we were talking about
um
just you know may organize reorganize
etc etc to best serve the district
um
and putting something there at the end
of that because that's kind of where
that whole discussion takes place
so
when you when you put down something
like
um major decisions there's no definition
of major decisions so
so again
there's no definition what's what
considers is is ten dollars major
financial decision is a is a is a
hundred thousand dollars
then if you do that then you're then
you're basically
um hamstringing a superintendent he
can't make anything
[Music]
so he still
is Acting Superintendent at that point
or not acting but he's a superintendent
that's his title
hey
I don't know I do know that the
difference between the authorization
Steffy can you check into your mic
please I know I feel you
got this
well I didn't know I was going to be
speaking I suppose but uh what I do know
about the
uh
two routes that are being discussed is
that the emergency provisional
certification is a one year and the
alternative authorization for a teacher
to news certificate or endorsement is a
a renewal process or it can be renewed
and that typically the time frame for
that is three years
so yes and in order to go that route you
have to take so many credits each year
for the renewal
and then get your certificate by the
third year
and that
agreement is with the state department
of Ed State Board of Ed the district
it seems like there was oh and the
candidate correct okay and the person
yes you have to show proof of credits
for each year
correct and that's sorry excuse me that
is not the authorization route that is
currently being discussed for this
candidate right correct correct it's
just the emergency provisional
certificate so and but it also has it
the ability to be extended another year
there's a provision in there for another
year yeah
for the Emergency there's only one year
according to call yeah according to the
law Idaho code
um and I have to get the right one
um it is only for one it is only for one
year
and then if it were decided that further
than the district would have it
basically Idaho code
um 33513
to employ professional Personnel or on
written contract and form approved by
the state superintendent or Public
Public Instruction conditioned upon a
valid sort of certificate being held by
such professional Personnel at the time
of the entering upon the duties they're
under should the Board of Trustees fail
to enter into the written contract for
the employment of any such person the
state superintendent of Public
Instruction shall withhold ensuing
apportionment until written contract but
the um
the
emergency certification is only for one
year
it's one year
um Michelle I have a server issued by
Authority
but it is a one it's a one-year
um that was that has been
um
Extended to me that has been said the
emergency
provisional is one year with if it
there's no extension with it if but it
there was a
problem
[Music]
um
Contracting that
so if he doesn't and I implies
so since he hasn't done that so far and
now the next time won't make it to this
just before August if he doesn't apply
for December she said he's going can you
put a permission to know that he's
required her to do this application in
the next five days
[Music]
his application was going to be
submitted
once he accepts this contract because it
has to be done and just let me finish
because it has to be done
in conjunction with with our HR
department
yes
is
it if you have no assurances on the one
side you're sitting here at home
guessing are you Representatives
and we want to know who we have to
pretend for the only do we have somebody
who's going to be qualified or told me
what is the position you're in tonight
now
that is
with the with the changes we made that
if the we know this contract this
proposed contract goes back to the
candidate
and
he may not like those changes that we
have made
um so it it's the thing is that it's you
know we've
um there's some it goes back and forth I
mean that's what happened with Mike Roby
we made changes we stuck to what we said
we were going to do
um
how long can he what
I think I should be done
we went several weeks with Mike Roby
this
[Music]
this is standard practice
we have already spent more time on this
than we should have okay okay
um so see if if you're all right if
certification or designation not
um not received then contract null and
void was what I was adding to be
um and then um certification or
designation by the State Board of
Education not received the Ida the State
Board of Education then contract Nolan
void
okay fine
that's pretty much a given
I said that's that's I said that's
pretty much a given
the the language that that
um Margaret just read
that if he does not receive a
certification this contract's known void
[Music]
how about we do within 90 days of him
signing this contract it has to be
whenever the Board of Education we were
we where
the last
I understand that it is to his best
interest to get the paperwork in as soon
as possible
it would be
um
place so that we can put some trust in
your decisions
[Music]
[Applause]
like spending there's a Time stipulation
for him for putting in that application
give us some good things to go on
because right now we have our kids
eating dinner in this boardroom to
babysit you guys decisions so just show
us
so
if and I unders you know I understand
what you're saying because
um the Apple the application
um
the application must be submitted to the
State Department of Education by June
30th
and that would be that would be the
reason being is that if it does drag out
then they can they may consider it an
emergency and it's that's it's not it's
important to get it into the State Board
of Education in a timely manner actually
Margie does paperwork that our clerk
gave us said that he has to the date
completed application due to the state
of Department of Education is due June
21st
for consideration State Board of
Education meeting date of August 23rd
the next day it is August 16th for
October 18th
so you said June 21st that's what our
clerk gave us the paperwork that says
the 21st
that I would say that seems reasonable
10 days
so it would be that the
this agreement is contingent on the
superintendent obtaining and maintaining
an Idaho superintendent's certification
or provisional certificate or otherwise
qualified designation which allows him
to conduct the dues as superintendent as
per Idaho code throughout the term of
his this agreement if certification or
designation
by the Idaho state
board of education is not received is is
not received or approved or is not
approved is not it if it's not applied
for the Dateline the deadline is not a
person not applied for and approved
well it wouldn't be approved it won't be
approved for by June 21st June 21st
because they don't need me
um applied for by June 21st
uh we can't we can't
um
but if it doesn't get approved and
doesn't get denied then it's still in
work yes so if it doesn't make it on
their docket
and they have to take it to the next
what's the next date is it maybe we give
them six 60 days yeah yeah 60 days from
the day he turns it in
so yesterday
right then go to that next one as like
that would be the fine yeah okay
so if certification or designation
is not applied for by June 21st
and approved within 60 days and approval
within 60 days
that should give us days then the
contract excuse no envoid
okay
[Applause]
[Music]
so just to just to clarify I want to
make sure that we have given him enough
Grace
um let's see so it would be October
um it's probably actually within 90 days
mm-hmm okay
I think they'll expedite it I think so
too but I do think they will
doctor can you read that one please
okay so
the whole for B do you want me to try
again okay this agreement is contingent
on the superintendent obtaining and
maintaining an Idaho superintendent
certification or provisional certificate
or other qualifying designation which
allows him to conduct the duties of
superintendent as per Idaho law
throughout the term of this agreement if
certification or designation is not
applied for by June 21st and approval by
by the state board within 60 days then
contract is null and void this contract
is then null and void
and I would put that as apply for with
um let's see applied for
by June 21st and approve an approval by
Within
as the State Board of Education and
approval or a denial within 60 days
approval or denial okay
then that doesn't let it continue on
yeah thank you
23. okay but now if they don't if he
gets his application in on time and for
some reason they don't do it
by
that's why I don't like to put a time
limit on that the word time limit on on
his application yeah we can put a time
limit on his application but we it's
it's not under his control or our
control whether the board
[Music]
it's not
let's see how we can put a requirement
on when he applies but it's up to the
state to decide
if they don't do it in the 60 days or
whatever if that's not
or our fault
[Music]
we've reached out to the State Board of
Education we have been told that we are
being watched you guys and your actions
are being watched they're not going to
be like with honor we'll put them on the
back burner for next week they're
waiting they're waiting to see Brandon's
application come listen to us with your
constituents we're telling you we are
they are not voting to push us to decide
they are going to either a food map and
or denied it
[Music]
us okay
I was just going to say and we can
always
make a I mean
we can make a board decision to extend
it too if we decide to do that and it's
approval or denial it's so if we don't
get an approval or denial we're still
waiting
so we can have that contingency plan
okay okay there you go
kind of puts our state on
call okay okay all those in favor
of section oh we haven't finished that
yeah cool section oh I'm sorry sorry
we're on to see we're on to C I know
we're late but um it's important
somebody else want to read it no sure I
can read it I'd be great the
superintendent's contract Maybe
the superintendent contract now I can't
see it
there that's better
my arms are longer the superintendent's
contract may be terminated
for a cause if a super majority of the
board in its sole discretion determines
that one the superintendent has
significantly failed or refused to act
in accordance with any provision of this
agreement
or any directive or order of the board
the superintendent has exhibited gross
misconduct or dishonesty in regard to
his employment
three the superintendent is or has been
convicted of a crime involving
dishonesty breach of trust or physical
or emotional harm to any person or for
the superintendent has acted in bad
faith in the detriment of the district
[Music]
not some sort of dishonesty gross you
know
that wasn't a conviction
no it was not a conviction
so so until we get until we get
confirmation of that let's just keep
moving on the one thing the word that I
would like to point out is super
majority he wasn't elected as a super
majority so maybe we just put majority
yes that was that was my um and then
move on
[Music]
and then I guess that was the one I
think that was a little odd to have
super majority because I feel like
um
represent different zones and so it's
important to be continue to be
represented
um the question I've got and this is
more of a just a question for Steffy I
think is has the final background check
been done at this point in time
no so we're still
okay so so I guess still he accepts a
contract has not been hired we have he
has not accepted his contract so when
the time of the contract is when the
contract is finalized and negotiated and
he's accepted it then we'll do the
background check
it's that says that we that work with
children and vulnerable people have to
have backgrounds until we offer him a
contract
he doesn't get a background check
with the emergency with the emergency
contingency plan there is a background
check so we will know
sooner than later
we won't have it submitted until he
applies in June 21st
wait so what
he has not been hired we are in
negotiation
during negotiation excuse me Mr chair if
I'm overstepping but
as soon as we get this contract
solidified and it goes back to him and
he applies by the 21st he according to
our clerk he will have a background
check before we can
[Music]
check he doesn't get the job just like
any any other employee
[Music]
correct
bless your word you're on camera buy
them in person give us your words that
you will not sign that contract until
there's a background check completed and
passed
my signature is only to attest
to the signatures on the contract I
don't approve
[Music]
that is part of the
that is part of well go ahead I'm sorry
to tell the acceptance agreement and
submit to the emergency
so that's the step I can say that if I
would have been elected and I was at
that table it would be a no-brainer
absolutely well
the background
oh
the background check as I understand it
is part standard HR procedure in this
district is that not correct that's
correct that is correct that is correct
by any state
employment in fact if if people uh if we
hire people and they have already had
been fingerprinted they have to do it
again when they apply to our district
s yes
okay it's
it's the same standard everyone else
falls under
I would hold confidence in our state
that if the background I would hold
yeah that's good
I
okay fine
um
okay we're
moving on the background check is part
of standard HR procedure it does not
belong in a contract energy
well well the thing is wait wait wait
enough the um the the Clause is in there
it basically under number two see number
two
and number three that should cover the
background check
of the superintendent has exhibited
gross well it's actually number three
the superintendent has or been convicted
of crime involving dishonesty breach of
trust or physical or emotional harm to
any person and that should the
background check should be covering that
item by the way the thing that you
pulled up that's gone all over the place
who was exonerated with that both him
and his wife none of that was ever
reported
[Music]
okay hold on just listen what was that
stuffy are standing up for this man who
we do not want as a community you are
not representing this community
man who can't even excuse me
[Music]
he does have custody of his own children
and
[Applause]
a thumb
s
excuse me excuse me
point
s
um
this is getting out of control
I did
I have done my research I have known
Brandon for a long time
okay
not personally
not professionally
[Applause]
point the point
450 your kids our kids not your
friendship
thank you
what
yeah
but the fact is you still did a crime
yep there you go
my information is called a withdrawal
judgment as long as he did everything he
was supposed to do Under the times of
his withheld judgment then it gets wiped
off of his record it doesn't mean that
he was or was not guilty of that crap
yeah I'm very familiar with what
happened
look at it
[Music]
the board voted and made a decision
[Applause]
[Music]
I didn't persuade anybody they made
their own decisions okay
[Music]
I never
said
[Applause]
hey
all right
we're almost
stop
because
you know what
I've just about had enough
okay
no
this meeting
so
[Music]
so this boat this
time
[Music]
so I mean we've we're almost through
this contract I know you don't like it
there's different pieces but we also
have more critical I mean this was on
the agenda the second piece on the
agenda was the budget hearing
item which we have to get through and it
has to it has to be
um
published so I mean again it's going
through it's a difficult process to go
through we're going to have to go
through this at some point in time for
one kind of date or the other or
whatever but I think we're almost at
this but I would I don't hate to say
table it because we're almost meeting
out but we have to do the we do also
have to do the budget
over there so I think the fact that
they're going through the consideration
everyone can give them the respect and
instead of
interrupting them let them have their
discussions because at this point
they can't make it through a statement
even to have a discussion and then
trying to talk up there when everyone's
talking I can hardly hear I can't
imagine how they get here and it would
just be nice to be able to hear what's
going on
thank you thank you
um just a follow-up stuffy on the
emergency
provisional
is there a portion in there that says he
has to have a background check in order
for that to go through this so all of
our employees undergo a background check
and that background check is paid for by
that individual applying for the
background check I think that that's the
simplest answer to your question thank
you
one-on-one
[Music]
that is
that's correct that is correct
so I don't think that needs it's our
policy correct it is already in policy
every school policy um
all right
[Music]
um
all right are we on the I guess on
number c
um I'm just trying to think of that item
is already in policy it's
um
I think if we just change the verbiage
from Super to majority
majority and go forth on that um yep and
we know that
[Music]
um
you know that
I guess the other the part is
um I think at this point I may come back
to revisit but let's move forward so we
can get through the rest and if there's
some things that we need to just sort of
fine-tune
um you know look at afterwards
so D says in the event of wait hold on
sorry sorry chair Rutledge
are we going to yes
table that or are we going to move on no
no okay
and see we're done with C correct okay
yeah I would say let's go on and if
there's something we need to come back
and fine-tune but I'm done with C at
this point in time okay so D is in the
event of termination for cause the board
shall provide the superintendent a
written statement of its intent to
terminate and its reasons for
termination the superintendent is
entitled to meet with the board in close
to session
within 30 calendar days of the
instruments of written statement the
superintendent may may present evidence
to the board to rebut the stated
reasonings for the termination after
this superintendent has had an
opportunity to respond to the stated
reasonings for a termination board will
make a final decision in the in writing
it there's a I think the right to work
is with the classified and not with a
certified or somebody who under contract
I'm pretty sure that's the case on this
so um actually though there is language
in terms of this other one and I think
we have it
so in in the original one
um we had mutual agreement and
termination and then this agreement
shall be well terminated upon the death
of the superintendent or if in the
opinion as the board
of the board the superintendent becomes
unable to perform the duties of the job
with reasonable accommodation by the
trust trust District or the board May
terminate the superintendent at any time
for good and just cause
um that is in the that's in our other
con that's in our other contract in the
event the board terminates the agreement
for cause the superintendent shall
afford the afforded All rights has set
forth in the board policies in state and
federal law
five the board shall notify the
superintendent of its intent to renews
this contract at time of final
evaluation and sixth the superintendent
has the option to terminate this
contract at the end of June each year
this contract for personal health
problems or health of spouse the
superintendent shall notify the board of
his desire to exercise this option as
soon as possible so that a replacement
can be found so
um it's a little different and I guess
I'm kind of curious about
um in the event of termination
the board shall provide the
superintendent written statement of its
intent to terminate
and its term reasons for termination
shall terminate entitled to meet with a
board in closed session within I don't
know what the thing within 30 days I was
wondering if 21 days 30 days seems like
it's a long time to meet you know have
that extended out so I'm wondering more
like 21 days
why would it
um why can't we just do within 10.
okay it's entitled to meet with the
board in closed session
um
at the next what is it we say at the why
don't we just change it to 10 days
I mean that gives the person plenty of
time to come back and say yay or nay or
prevent it with its evidence Well in 30
days I mean there may be
Susan might work
okay so the way I read it superintendent
is titled to meet with the board in
closed session within 30 days 30
calendar days of the issuance of of the
written statement
okay
that's nice
to terminate wait a minute to terminate
and it's reason for termination
okay
and certain instances of of this kind of
um
classified staff there may be need for
legal counsel that's all
what
I think it's I'm trying to what I'm
trying to think of right now is I think
there's language that we use for
suspension and expulsion and that's the
one I'm trying to remember it's like
within there's a sort of within X period
of time at um within as soon as Within
there's a time frame I think I I would
put back it down to at least 21 days
um that would hopefully give time for
legal counsel and um
and some type of investigation or
whatever that might be needed because if
there is a reason a termination for
cause again it's one of those things is
trying to wrap it up
expeditiously as possible
I don't get
or somehow to get around it because one
dishonest and so he can come back and
say hey no I wasn't and here's why
he's terminated because something
happens
no this has this is completely separate
it's a completely separate
situation that has nothing to do with it
yes yeah and that's I mean that's when
I'm I mean I'm thinking of what would we
give
I mean if we're in some ways we spend a
lot of time hopefully this could be a
standard template somewhat pretty much
um we can use use it as
um
so what would we give someone else and
I'm thinking we're 21 days and 30 days
just to be not quite hanging it out
there so long that I would get that
would be what I would ask to have just
in general and I'm probably overthinking
this but are they suspended until they
meet with us
from the job or can they go back to the
classroom and continue to
we can't imply it's a contract
s
I believe
because that's what's happened
so I would think it behooves us to wrap
it up and in the event of termination or
cause
um
why don't we meet in the middle of 15
days
15 why don't we just say 15 school days
or some things 15 business days that's
more than enough time to get a lawyer
find representation evidence
this says calendar days
this one says calendar days
so 14 calendar days
well that's if we say what Carlin was
saying well
um you know if we take it down to 14
calendar days I mean to get everything
in them
think of this as it's whomever you know
what are you what are you giving to
take the person out but what are you
giving
um excuse me I would still go back to
either 21 calendar days 21 calendars
let's do 21. we're good 21 days 21. 21
calendar days great let's go which is
two weeks but um yep thank you
um okay and I think the rest of it
all right
um
and I think policy we could say
um uh District policy related to
suspension you know it's a contract so
just leave it as is at this point
I'm trying to think if we just point to
the policy regarding suspension if as
needed okay okay
Eve the superintendent intends to
terminate this agreement he or she shall
and do so by March 1st and the school
year prior to his resignation
termination of this agreement after
March 1st in the school year prior to
his resignation she'll can constitute a
material breach of contract and may
result as the board's sole discretion in
the Forfeit of any post-employment
I'm not even going to try to say that
word because my brain is tired including
the compensation for unused vacation and
or time
um the only quick question on this one
is March 1st is kind of out there I was
thinking January 1st but I also know
that can be a change over a group of us
so I was wondering if February 1st he
shall do so by February 1st that way
we're not caught in trying to cram in a
superintendent search and all of that
when actually we'll be behind the curve
because a lot of school districts
actually start in November to do this
process so I don't know how to and most
retirements start are being notified in
February so I agree February 1st just
because it just we need enough time and
we keep getting at the end of it and
it'd be helpful to be
no beforehand
and that wraps up eight okay termination
and employment of contract okay all
those in favor of eight as as
updated please say aye
okay on to
[Music]
um
salary determination nine it shall be
the goal of the district to pay the
superintendent at least the average
salary of the superintendents in the
state of Idaho based upon data from the
Idaho Department of Education and that's
pretty that's pretty standardized
um
or I guess and it might be something to
look at because when we
um the superintendent
that's pretty standard I mean Paul had
that I think when he was going through
his authorization alternative
authorization
I think and that was what his scat was
the 105 000 based on the the upcoming
fee schedule for administrators
there
what's your question
um in terms of there is a fee schedule
I'm just wondering is it based on
experience but is was the current
contract amount
based on
what determined the 105 000 dollars
I didn't select
I just wondered if it fit where it fits
on our our you know our um fee schedule
administrators
we have a fee schedule for
administration right yes correct so
there is a fee schedule for
administration or a salary schedule
salary schedule for administration is on
that superintendent is on that yes
salary schedule
um and then the
uh
salary schedule is posted on the
district website and that's up for
consideration
is this the new is this based on the new
scholar the salary schedule that's going
into effect 20 23 2024. we're not on the
contract so depending on we're on the
addendum so depending on which contract
you're looking at that would be a
pull that one up
um
contract
I've got the contract but it's in here
that and I I saw 105 000 it is
um
it was on the all right it was my
computer okay this was last year
so his is a hundred and five thousand
dollars yes and I don't know I mean I
looked at our current fee schedule and I
wasn't sure how it how it came to that
except the closest one was that he would
have been
I guess I need clarification how we got
to a hundred and five thousand dollars
who said 105 well
for comparison
um
uh superintendent uh
assistant superintendent in Coeur
d'Alene makes 120 000.
so I don't know
stuff so
except wait um what I wanted to find out
because we sort of updated for the 2023
we did do some update on the salary
schedule
um and that's what I'm wondering about
information to be included in the
addendum and the contract were sent to
me and I sent that information to our
human resource director that amount that
is listed what was proposed
by Mr Durst I I don't know where the
amount came from okay because I mean
what I'm thinking of too is we one of
the things that you've worked hard on
over the last year is to try not to have
these jumps in the salary or anomalies
in our salary schedule
and so um I mean we were looking at the
you know we were trying to sort of
smooth that out a little bit more and
the thing I could not find but that's a
separate contract at this time
but it's what I'm my question's a little
different is that we have done some
adjustment for the next year for 2023
2024. so if you're looking at sorry no
but I think at this point it's the set
we're looking at finishing up the
addendum so I got sidetracked onto the
other contract so the language in the
addendum is just we don't talk about
salary in there we talk about it in the
actual
one
no no that no because the state those
salaries come from the state
apportionment and there was increase
and I mean we've run into that before I
mean this is not the first discussion we
sort of had it
um
but it did say it's the goal it's not it
has to it we do not have to follow it we
can the the board can make other
decisions it's the goal of the district
to pay because
our Administration
our Minister our directors and our
administrators
are also trying to we're trying to get
them to a competitive rate
um
so but it's I mean this is the one that
we've had for
probably eight years
um
no it what I would want to know is where
on the other contract word we come up
with that base that rate but the
language we've got here is I think it's
the goal to try to pay
um a superintendent the average
I think we're trying to pay them at
least a decent rate because we know that
Lake ponderay's superintendent is I
can't remember with over 100 that you
know it's 170 107. so if they're a
bigger School District
um
[Music]
Jan's actually boundary County
let me put that in because I do have
boundary
um
on our website
for a certified superintendent it says
97 000
and that's always been probably going to
change
it but he's not certified
so even this 97 wouldn't look like
they're currently right now
oh what you're worth
the fall under certifications
because currently
I am going through the process of
getting certified to be
extended because of that I am not paid
as a certified teacher which I
completely agree with and understand so
why would we give someone who is not
certified
the amount of a certified
you've had community plan equals what
never once before
Jeff Alex
[Applause]
she's one of our awesome teachers
um
better View
but the 105 is not remember that any of
you on the stage
proposed correct this number came from
and it's outside
maybe Human Resources no this number was
a in an email that I received from Mr
Rutledge okay
okay
[Music]
let's let's let us get through okay
Okay so
board the the chairman of the board does
the negotiation with the superintendent
that is standard procedure
[Applause]
well
[Music]
you wanted to know where the number came
from you wanted to you're looking at a
salary schedule I just stated what other
averages were around here 105 was
he's not qualified
you can't communicate shouldn't be our
problem
s
they all know where they are on
celebrities
[Music]
eight and a half years I've never
negotiated by myself
[Music]
well
known them forever so
I guess on this one
[Music]
those well
you know those were items for
negotiation
[Music]
um
so like this one I'm just trying to get
us through I mean I'd like to get us
through this
I didn't lie to you
listen um
it shall be the goal of the district
um
I can't I'm trying
I'm just trying to reread that but I
mean that that's what we're trying with
it
I'm gonna say that I'm going to the
salary determination because the the
actual amount is on another contract is
on another page that's separate I would
go with this because I would say it
doesn't matter who it is
it's the goal of the district to try to
pay the superintendent at least the
average daily salary of the
superintendent in the state of Idaho
based on the data from the Idaho
Department of Education and it could be
and the um and the candidates or and
the
with
with reference to the westbounder the
district's salary schedule or something
like that but or just leave it like it
is because it's been our it's been our
goal to pay the teachers and classified
it hasn't always happened to pay them a
competitive wage and so that's what that
language says it's the goal it's not has
to be but it's the goal of to do that
and at part of negotiations Mr Roby came
back with I mean Jackie Branham was a
hundred and twelve thousand uh Mr
Branham was uh Mr Roby was
was more I don't and it didn't fit our
it didn't fit our district because it
was way too high so I think it's the
goal to try to be competitive for all
our staff but
um so I would leave it as it is right
now
I I'm not sure why we even have that in
there at this point actually because his
his determination of his pay scale is
set by the district according to his
accreditations and his experience and
I'm
I don't unders I think we should just
strike that and leave it up to the the
salary schedule for a certified employee
as an administrator
because when he comes in he's going to
say okay I've got I mean hypothetically
if a superintendent comes in they're
going to say I've got five years of
experience these are my certifications
this is where I feel like I fall on this
pay scale you're not going to just say
okay well we're just going to pay you
what the average is for the state even
though you have no experience and you're
not certified and we have to pay for you
to be certified and we're paying it just
I'm sorry maybe I'm overthinking this
but I'm just
[Applause]
just doesn't make sense to me I don't
know
um so it's so it shall be the goal that
just well the district instead of the
goal the district shall pay the
superintendent
um
how do you say it um how about we just
say how about we just say the district
pays or it it shall be the goal of the
super or the goal of the district to pay
the superintendent
where they fall on the pay scale
determined through negotiation as an
admin and based on qualifications
experience and certifications
okay so the goal of the district
um
the goal of the goal of the district is
to pay superintendent
um
was it the Carlin would you say the
appropriate
well it's determined by our salary
schedule for administration
in negotiation for his experience or the
superintendent's experience
certifications and
um
I can't remember what else they said
sorry
qualifications there you go thank you
very much
so the goal of the district is to pay
the superintendent
a salary
a salary based on the salary schedule of
the district
yeah it's getting late negotiated by the
district
yeah negotiate he could negotiate I mean
I would love to be paid for a 10-year
teacher in the state of Idaho I'd love
to be paid what their the average salary
schedule is
for somebody in Boise
um
so Carlin would you like that one out
for me please
it shall be the goal of the district to
pay the superintendent
[Music]
District
let me think about this should I be the
goal of the district to pay the
superintendent
a negotiated
he negotiated wage
isn't it salary a negotiated wage wage
or salary and negotiate salary okay a
negotiated salary
accordance according to
the administration salary schedule
which will be determined by
qualifications
years of experience
and what was the third one
um what qualification or um
certifications
thank you
so determined by certificate
qualifications
certification
[Music]
and years of experience and years of
experience
and experience can also mean other thing
you know can include other things it can
include other things professional
that's how a lot of CTE teachers are
yeah
okay
so
um
all right so how do we feel about that
could you please reread it one more time
okay salary determination it shall be
the goal of the district to pay the
superintendent a negotiated salary
according to the administration
administrative administrators
salary schedule determined by
and um
in accordance determined by
qualification certifications and years
of experience
and that could be standard and put forth
by any superintendent that we hired okay
or employee for that matter okay
and moving forward go to the entire
agreement
okay if that's okay
um
this agreement may be terminated by
mutual agreement of the superintendent
and the board in writing upon such terms
and conditions as it may be mutually
agreed upon
after the superintendent has returned
the executed agreement contract and
addendum the superintendent will not be
released from this agreement without the
written consent of the board except
where specific exceptions are addressed
in this agreement this agreement is for
two years and will automatically Renew
at the beginning of each fiscal year a
vote of super majority of the board
shall be required to suspend the
provision the contract and addendum
represent the entire agreement between
the parties regarding the employment of
the superintendent by the Board of
Trustees and there are no other verbal
agreements which modifying terms any
modification of this agreement shall be
set forth in writing and attached here
to
so
um
I would still again a vote of majority
not super majority one thing that was
pointed out is I would say that this is
a one-year contract not two-year or the
other contract is one year this should
reflect that so I would say this
contract is for one year at this time
um
and that it will Autumn and then strike
automatic renewal at the beginning of
each fiscal year which is say is when
your contract
um renewal based on
um evaluation board evaluation board
evaluation
chair yes
okay
they're working
yep
could you please speak up so they can
hear you
right
oh okay
I always see what you're saying okay
so it would be this agreement is one
year
this agreement is for one year renewal
based on board evaluation strike the
contract addendum represents the entire
agreement between parties regarding the
employment of superintendent by the
Board of Trustees and there are no other
verbal agreements which modifying terms
any modification the agreement shall be
set forth in writing and attached here
too
so starts in
July right July 1st
July 1st okay
okay
just get rid of that line item
okay so that will be that was number
eight termination Employment contract
number D and I was just going to put
District policy related dispension I
know it was really flaky
um just strike that to strike that piece
and just leave it as it's written except
for 21 days versus 30.
but she
so we need to put suspension without pay
until
uh maybe it should be bored a
with board with board of review um based
on board if you're written up it but and
you're written up by any other business
it's suspended until suspended without
pay oh for its invention it's an event
of termination for cause so yes
determination without pay suspension
without pay
termination
on suspension for
administrative
but I just it wasn't in your foreign
policies on how you guys
okay
um so that that line for D
um Carlin did you catch it is this
suspension without pay
um okay so let's see superintendent
written statement of intent to terminate
and his reasons for termination
um superintendent is entitled to meet
with the board in closed session within
21 days
of
board mate board May
um board made um
tip
it's for cause so in the event of
termination for cause the board shall
provide the superintendent a written
statement of intent to terminate and its
reasons for termination
also we need to add in their
superintendent will be suspended without
pay
until
so the superintendent will be suspended
without pay
and until he his entitled meeting with
the board in closed session within 21
days
until meeting with board
in closed session within 21 days in
closed session within 21 days
okay
all right okay so
there's a lot of changes I mean I I say
the next step is um this has to be
written up so we can actually read it
during this meeting okay
okay
um
we can't send emails to each other yeah
that's a violation so
I mean
yeah the only I would I would table
um I mean I would adjourn this meeting
but I know that Stephanie needs a do you
need us to look at that budget really
quickly and give you a direction yes
please okay I think we need to do that
really quickly but I would move on to
can we move on to this one we can say
that I will I will take it on um with
what direction that's here
um try to write these up and do if you
can send me the right one okay
um I can go through my notes and I have
a track change I have the track changes
um okay so
um
can I make a motion to address the chair
s
or state that they can move to hire Miss
lucky instead
the Kootenai County GOP just uh put on
Facebook that is someone in the room
able to slip them a note or state that
they can move to hire Miss lucky instead
they can still make that action right
now
someone can make that motion we don't
have enough boards
we're gonna
yeah yeah
so
um can I um can I make a motion that um
speaker oh sorry okay I want to make a
motion that um that the next step of
this is that I go ahead and try to put
the track changes into something that we
can actually follow
um and that we table this until
when's our next do we have a meeting on
Wednesday our next meeting is our
regular scheduled meeting okay so I
would say that I will get this all put
together hopefully by another day or two
so that it can go be I'll return it to
um
um board clerk Stephanie Pavey and chair
um Rutledge
and then they can circulate among the
board to make sure that we've got all
the corrections made
according to our own addendums on our
own changes on there we have to meet
again yeah because he has to make that
final submission on the 21st so we
should in good faith meet and have a
special meeting to approve this
so that we can submit it to him so we
can have it come back for negotiation
okay okay I mean we can't okay so first
the item on the table
[Music]
the motion now is the table
this
edit to allow
Margie to make the edits
and then we'll schedule another meeting
and I'm
and I don't want to put words into
anybody's mouths but we should meet I'm
sorry again tomorrow the sooner we can
get these Corrections done and back to
our well there's not enough
you have to notice that what was that we
have to have a longer notice if we have
to notice I would say Wednesday because
I have to work I do work there is this
is I volunteer remember
um and this is volunteer for all of us
the three of us here
I would try to get these done maybe
tomorrow morning if I can get the word
word draft of it because it's not the
word copy doesn't come off the doesn't
my system doesn't like it
um if it's sent to me I will try to do
it first thing in the morning get it
back but again the revision if we're
doing a special notice or special
meeting we should also pause
post the revisions of this on the
website
um so that people see you know people
that we've been talking through it so
people can see what we've actually been
doing do attract changes in a clear
change and have that posted on the
website so that would be my
recommendation I would say then I know
Thursday is not a good day I would
propose Wednesday that's really tight
that's really tight
Thursdays I prefer you I know that so I
would propose
Wednesday would give us you know if I
get it to you tomorrow we get it posted
by tomorrow I think it will get out
there in time hopefully it would get
there in time and then we could meet our
deadline I can only meet at three or
four pm I have to be at another school
function for my personal job at five at
five oh okay so you have to meet at
three
foreign
okay
[Applause]
[Music]
um
I'm not doing it
I mean I
I mean simultaneously we can look at
this we can look at this
we can ask to put it back on the agenda
at the same time we can ask to review
the contract we can do those both
simultaneously on the same agenda if we
needed to we could do one in the same so
um
I would say Wednesday
I could do Wednesday and you said
between three and four that's going to
be a tight
then we don't know about Troy and Susan
um
so I guess I'm making I'll make a motion
to go ahead and put
have a special meeting
to review this contract as written on
um
on Wednesday because I guess on
Wednesday at the same time I would also
add to that agenda
reviewing the decision
I'll second that okay all those in favor
I and I would say oh time time period
would be
um you said three I'm sorry I know okay
so three o'clock because we can't do
let's do 3 30. okay
if you squeeze a little bit more time on
your end if we do 3 30. I can be I can
be here for an hour okay okay all right
so three three Thirty and then
um quickly Steffy what do you need from
us I'll I'm gonna ask to bring to the
table the consideration approval of the
notice of the budget hearing
um so we can quickly maybe sort of go
through that
I that's what the motion was is to look
at the contract keep going you know
finish finalizing the contract but
simultaneously bring back the vote to
yes
correct
[Music]
yeah I voted
no these these mics are really tired I'm
sorry yeah so
I will bring I'm going to bring to
quickly make a motion to bring the
consideration for approval and notice
the budget hearing I know we don't have
much time we need to kind of move
forward but I think Stephanie needs some
direction because of her timeline yes
please thank you is
am I good to go yes please okay so what
you have before you and what has been
posted on the board book premiere is a
notice of the budget hearing it's a
summary statement for 2023 through the
2024 school budget I just would like to
highlight a few factors that you see
here for the proposed budget for
2023-2024 and that beginning balances
column or row excuse me in the proposed
budget column
we have a portion of our fund balance
that is projected to be used the
state revenue is listed in alignment to
the state budget worksheets
and
if we go over to the all funds column
proposed budget
2023-2024 uh
two items that I want to highlight are
going to be our federal revenue we see
three million 595
135 dollars the by and large largest
portion of that is attributed to Esser
dollars so sr3
and the other sources we see 422
208 dollars that is the Idaho bill for
tax relief
down at the expenditures uh what you
will see specifically in the general
fund are all of the
expenditures as totaled for the factors
that the board has discussed through a
series of
board budget work sessions
so the salaries and benefits
have taken into con account
the cut of eight positions and the
uh
in the purchase services and supplies
and materials has been increased by the
factor of a little over 10 percent for
inflation
okay are there any questions no it seems
that you it's kind of what you built on
sorry um it's what you said let you gave
us the preliminaries last time and this
is the filling in the details so do you
need for further direction for um the
budget hearing do you need us just to
make a motion to approve this
preliminary or what do you need at this
time I yes I would be requesting a
motion for approval of this notice of
budget hearing so that this can be
submitted in the paper of record okay I
will make a motion to approve this
budget to be able to submit it to the
papers I'll second that motion
all those in favor
aye aye and I make a motion to adjourn I
second that
you guys